---
title: Spring Beach organizes!
description: Best practice-- combine Neighborhood Emergency Response Organizations with Block Watch.
date: 2014-11-04T23:35:00Z
params:
   dnn_blog_ID: 5
   dnn_entry_ID: 357
   meta_title: Spring Beach organizes!
   allow_comments: False
   display_copyright: False
   copyright: 
   permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/357/Spring-Beach-organizes
   image: 357_blog-image.png
   author: Unknown
categories: []
tags: [NERO, Sheriff, KCSO, Block Watch, Spring Beach, 2014]
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p>This summer saw some great new NERO organizing activity among two NERO groups in Spring Beach. Emergency response efforts there are being combined with Block Watch, to increase neighborhood preparedness while also helping to create an environment that dissuades crime. With only two sheriffs on duty at any given time, to police the 37 rural square miles of Vashon and Maury islands, the officers need all our eyes and ears to help them curtail criminal activity.&nbsp;</p>
<p>Debi and Gary Richards and Randy York each spearheaded reactivation of two NEROs on their roads in Spring Beach, and generously invited potential captains from nearby streets to attend. Randy is an active Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) member, having achieved her Registered Emergency Worker (REW) status in 2013. She is also an active ham radio operator who is pursuing the highest licensing level. Debi sits on the board of Vashon Be Prepared, and has also been vigorously driving efforts to get Vashon-Maury businesses prepared for strong recovery after a major incident, in her role as the Business NERO (BNERO) coordinator. Gary is a well-known and respected contractor who has built a number of homes in the area. Although all have lived in their neighborhoods for quite some time, they noted that there are some new faces on their streets. Hosting a NERO meeting can facilitate getting to know new neighbors, learn their skills and needs. That increased familiarity can be reassuring when neighbors reach out to offer or request assistance during a major storm or other incident.</p>
<p>Thanks to sheriff's deputies Peter Thalhofer and Jeff Hancock for helping launch the combined NERO/Block Watch concept on Vashon-Maury, for presenting at these meetings about neighborhood and island-wide crime statistics, and for suggesting ways we can all make our homes and neighborhoods safer from crime. If anyone is interested in a presentation by the deputies at your NERO meeting, please let me know and I will help arrange it.</p>
