---
title: NWS Web Site Changing For The Better – March 7th
description: NWS Web Site Changing For The Better – March 7th
date: 2017-02-24T19:37:36Z
PublishDate: 2017-02-24T19:37:36Z
archive: ["2017", "2017-2", "2017-2-24"]
params:
  dnn_blog_ID: 1
  dnn_entry_ID: 399
  meta_title: NWS Web Site Changing For The Better – March 7th
  allow_comments: True
  display_copyright: False
  copyright:
  permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/399/NWS-Web-Site-Changing-For-The-Better-ndash-March-7th
  image: 399_blog-image.png
  authors: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p><b>Your Bookmarks Will Need To Change Too!</b></p>  <p>The National Weather Service’s primary web site <a href="http://www.weather.gov">www.weather.gov</a> plans to implement an upgrade. The improvement will involve the point ‘n click site specific forecasts and zone forecasts. </p>  <p>Once these changes occur on March 7, all your current forecast.weather.gov bookmarks will change. Links to a specific forecast page will display an error message that includes a URL to the new web site location. That is your opportunity to update your bookmarks to provide access to NWS forecasts quickly after the upgrade. </p>  <p>The primary focus of the upgrade is to make the forecast pages more reliable during weather events, but there are some benefits of new forecast pages as well that include:</p>  <p>· Addition of 7-day hourly forecast information to the point forecast page</p>  <p>· A new mobile-friendly landing and graphical/tabular forecast page</p>  <p>· Low-bandwidth optimization for all pages, on a partial roll-out at launch</p>  <p>· Option to automatically detect your location on a mobile device</p>  <p>· A new widget mode that allows you to customize the information on the point forecast</p>  <p>The overhauled architecture of the application platform will provide a more stable and consistent service to meet weather information demand, particularly during severe weather events. The updated web site will provide a complete mobile-friendly experience with optimizations for low bandwidth and customized weather widgets. </p>  <p>There are now two new data centers located in College Park, MD, and Boulder, CO, to provide 100% backup capability for operational data used within the forecast process.&#160; </p>  <p>We look forward to providing you with useful and timely information using the improved connectivity and new design. Any questions can be sent to <a>kolly.mars@noaa.gov</a></p>
