---
title: Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) Training Class
description: Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) Training Class
date: 2017-01-25T15:06:00Z
PublishDate: 2017-01-25T15:06:00Z
archive: ["2017", "2017-1", "2017-1-25"]
params:
  dnn_blog_ID: 1
  dnn_entry_ID: 397
  meta_title: Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) Training Class
  allow_comments: True
  display_copyright: False
  copyright:
  permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/397/Community-Emergency-Response-Team-CERT-Training-Class
  image: 397_blog-image.png
  authors: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

Emergency Preparedness &amp; Response:<br />
<br />
A Half Day Basic Class on February 4 ... OR ...A 45-hour Course Packed With Skills <br />
<br />
Participation in CERT is highly rewarding for both you and your neighbors. If community support when problems arise is important to you, CERT will likely be an extraordinarily positive experience. &nbsp;CERT originated in Los Angeles in 1994 to support the city fire department, and has been enhanced and extended to hundreds of communities by FEMA to help citizens safely help each other in various emergencies. &nbsp;<br />
<br />
The rewards are:<br />
<br />
Increased safety at your home &amp; businessIncreased personal preparedness for windstorms, earthquakes and power outages&nbsp;New life-saving and first aid skillsIncreased self-confidence New friendsParticipation in the Vashon communityStylish green hard-hat and hi-vis vest (for team) <br />
<br />
Requirements to be on the active team: <br />
<br />
Vashon resident - full-time or part-time Very basic physical fitnessBasic CERT course (3 parts; see back of this flyer)&nbsp;Several additional Vashon-specific trainings (maps,&nbsp;two-way radios, a search exercise, etc.)Four refresher or enrichment trainings each year&nbsp;Comply with CERT policies and codes of conduct&nbsp;Favorable background check by VIFR Responsibility and accountability <br />
<br />
Typical activations include <br />
<br />
&nbsp;search for missing persons (Vashon has no other local search/rescue group),&nbsp;logistical support to the Fire Dept or Sheriff,&nbsp;information gathering during a disaster, and&nbsp;first aid. <br />
<br />
CERT does not fight fires, go into unstable buildings, or neglect our own neighborhood. CERT members are specially trained to be a skilled resource in their neighborhoods, and respond to the greater community only after their own home and neighborhood are stable. <br />
<br />
2017 Course Dates - <br />
<br />
the program is offered at no cost to the public.&nbsp; <br />
<br />
Options include: &nbsp;<br />
<br />
The Five-Hour Preparedness Seminar on February 4&nbsp;&nbsp;Another 20 hours of emergency response training for the average citizenEven more training to serve on the active Vashon CERT team. <br />
<br />
The 45 hour basic course covers: <br />
<br />
Safety training around utility problems such as gas leaks and damaged power linesReducing potential fire and electrical hazards in your home and business&nbsp;Extinguishing various types of small firesFirst aid including head-to-toe assessments, wound&nbsp;care, splinting, triage of multiple patients, and more&nbsp;Selecting and setting up a medical treatment area for a&nbsp;disaster situationHow to size-up various emergency situations and&nbsp;respond safely and effectivelySearching structures and the Vashon community or&nbsp;woods for lost personsHow Vashon's CERT team operates, our responsibilities&nbsp;and coordinating with other organizations <br />
<br />
Supplemental topics and classes after joining the team: <br />
<br />
Use of two-way radios (both Ham radios and ordinary "walkie-talkies") Reading various maps, finding addresses, using a compass and your phone to navigateThe nitty-gritty of supporting Vashon Fire Dept and County SheriffSeveral types of search operations and how to safely conduct each oneHow CERT partners with other citizen groups Advanced first aidAnd more...the list is long and the topics&nbsp;are interesting <br />
<br />
2017 Course Dates RSVP for any or all of these to: CERT@VashonBePrepared.org CERT <br />
<br />
Manager Jan Milligan will send confirmation and, for the two longer segments, plenty of details about the curriculum, make- ups for sessions you might miss, team policies and more. Jan be reached by phone, 206-949-1184. Some info also at: www.vashonbeprepared.org/partners/CERT<br />
<br />
PART 1: 5 Hours of Basic Preparedness for you &amp; your household - open to the public (February 4 at main fire station Farcy building, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.) Bring a lunch or snacks; there will be no formal lunch break.<br />
This session is sponsored by VashonBePrepared, with presenters from several citizen groups, Vashon Fire, and Puget Sound Energy <br />
<br />
PART 2: 20 Hours of safety &amp; emergency training in fire prevention, light fire fighting, utility safety, first aid for various situations, and light search &amp; rescue. Five consecutive Friday evenings, 6- 10:00 p.m. at main fire station Farcy building. February 10, 17, 24 plus March 3 and 10. Pre-requisite: Feb 4 Preparedness seminar. You will need to provide a few inexpensive personal supplies: dust-mask, safety glasses, work clothes (grubbies) &amp; gloves, and your own water/snacks. <br />
<br />
PART 3: 20 Hours of CERT team operation - for those who want to join the active Vashon team, continue after Part 2 for three more Friday evenings (March 17, 24, 31) and Sunday March 26 for a disaster simulation, 8-4:00 (lunch provided that day). After completion, you'll earn your green hard-hat and hi-vis vest. Pre- requisites are Parts 1 and 2. <br />
<br />
Vashon Island CERT is sponsored by Vashon Island Fire &amp; Rescue....CERT is both a basic course and an active local team&nbsp; <br />
<br />
A partner of VashonBePrepared, the local network of citizen&nbsp;groups and government agencies dedicated to leading our island in preparedness and emergency response.
