---
title: King County Fire Chief’s Issue STAGE 1 (Restrictions) Burn Ban
description: King County Fire Chief’s Issue STAGE 1 (Restrictions) Burn Ban
date: 2023-06-01T04:53:00Z
PublishDate: 2023-06-01T04:53:00Z
archive: ["2023", "2023-6", "2023-6-1"]
params:
  dnn_blog_ID: 1
  dnn_entry_ID: 496
  meta_title: King County Fire Chief’s Issue STAGE 1 (Restrictions) Burn Ban
  allow_comments: True
  display_copyright: False
  copyright:
  permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/News/Blog/EntryId/496/King-County-Fire-Chief-rsquo-s-Issue-STAGE-1-Restrictions-Burn-Ban
  image: 496_blog-image.png
  authors: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p>Effective Thursday June 1<sup>st</sup> at 0800hrs the King County Fire Chief&rsquo;s Association, King County Fire Marshals Association and the King County Fire Marshal are implementing a STAGE 1 (burn restrictions) Ban.&nbsp; This ban specifically relates to yard debris/residential burning.</p>

<p>In response to the increased Fuel Energy Release Rates (ERC), decreased 100-hour fuel moisture content (F100), and anticipated warmer weather conditions the King County Fire Chiefs and the King County Fire Marshals, collectively are implementing a STAGE 1 Burn Ban (burn restrictions).&nbsp; <u>Recreational Fires, Gas/propane appliances, including grills, pellet smokers and charcoal grills are still permitted.</u></p>

<p>The King County Fire Chiefs, Fire Marshals and local jurisdictions encourage all residents to burn according to their local jurisdictions requirements and maintain a fire safe environment.&nbsp; If you have any questions, please contact your local Fire Department.</p>

<p><b><u>Approved Recreational Burn Requirements</u></b>: <i>*note some jurisdictions require burning permit</i></p>

<ol>
 <li>Firewood shall be seasoned and dry.</li>
 <li>Be built in a metal or concrete fire pit, such as those typically found in designated campgrounds; and not be used as debris disposal.</li>
 <li>Grow no larger than three feet in diameter.</li>
 <li>Be in a clear spot free from any vegetation for at least 10 feet in a horizontal direction, including at least 25 feet away from any structure and allow 20-foot vertical clearance from overhanging branches.</li>
 <li>Recreational fires shall be always attended by an alert individual and equipment capable of extinguishing the fire with a shovel and a 5-gallon bucket of water or with a connected and charged water hose.</li>
 <li>Completely extinguish campfires by pouring water or moist soil in them and stirring with a shovel until all parts are cool to the touch. The use of self-contained camp stoves is encouraged as an alternative.</li>
 <li>No burning when winds exceed 15 MPH.</li>
</ol>

<p>For additional information or questions please see <a href="https://www.VIFR.org" target="_blank">www.VIFR.org</a> or contact <a href="mailto:administration@vifr.org">administration@vifr.org</a>.&nbsp;</p>
