---
title: VashonBePrepared Statement For Racial Equality
description: VashonBePrepared Statement For Racial Equality
date: 2020-06-08T21:53:16Z
PublishDate: 2020-06-08T21:53:16Z
archive: ["2020", "2020-6", "2020-6-8"]
params:
   dnn_blog_ID: 1
   dnn_entry_ID: 452
   meta_title: VashonBePrepared Statement For Racial Equality
   allow_comments: True
   display_copyright: False
   copyright: 
   permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/452/VashonBePrepared-Statement-For-Racial-Equality
   image: 452_blog-image.png
   author: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p><em>The following statement has been approved by a majority of VashonBePrepared Board Members. Thanks to our
            President Vicky de Monterey Richoux for crafting this.</em></p>

    <p>In recent weeks we've witnessed devastating news of yet more innocent Black people being 
        killed by police. Use of undue force has been used against peaceful protestors while they were 
        exercising their First Amendment rights, further inflaming the situation. These events occur not 
        in a time of relative political, economic, and social ease, but after months of fears, tensions, 
        illnesses and deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic.</p>
    <p>
        Systemic racism combines with the COVID-19 pandemic, or any type of disaster, to result in far 
        more dire outcomes for people of color, including:</p>
    <ul>
        <li>
            History shows that, following any disaster, our <a href="https://ncdp.columbia.edu/research/vulnerable-populations/" target="_blank">most vulnerable
                neighbors</a> are affected first and worst.</li>
        <li>In King county, Blacks, indigenous people, and people of color (BIPOC) are <a href="https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/news/2020/May/1-covid.aspx" target="_blank">sickening and
                dying in disproportionate numbers</a>. Health disparities of race and place over many decades have set
            the stage for worse health outcomes from the novel coronavirus.</li>
        <li>In addition to suffering disproportionate job losses, people of color more often hold 'essential' jobs that
            require in-person work, which puts them at <a href="https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2020/05/26/860913793/how-the-crisis-is-making-racial-inequality-worse" target="_blank">far greater danger</a> of contracting COVID- 19. 
        </li>
    </ul>
    <p>Rather than pull up the drawbridge, volunteers in Vashon’s preparedness community have 
        extended their hands: the Medical Reserve Corps' Rural Test and Trace Toolkit has been <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/16/health/coronavirus-vashon-washington.html" target="_blank">shared
            to other rural and tribal communities</a> around Washington state and beyond, and the testing 
        program here on Vashon is available to all, regardless of insurance status or ability to pay. Other 
        volunteers on the Emergency Operations team have made pointed efforts to aid groups of our 
        fellow residents who may experience barriers to communication and assistance, such as Latinx 
        neighbors and people with low- or no digital access. The Emergency Operations team has 
        prioritized getting information and aid to renters, families suffering food scarcity and housing 
        insecurity, struggling small businesses and laid-off employees, and isolated elders. The Situation 
        Reports published on the website now regularly include information on demographic disparities 
        relating to the pandemic. Vashon’s preparedness leaders are making plans to provide training to 
        all preparedness volunteers, in diversity, inclusion, and equity.</p>
    <p>
        But there’s still much work ahead. Beyond posting hashtags on social media or making 
        donations in the moment, we each face the sometimes uncomfortable task of learning and 
        confronting our own implicit biases. In redressing racism, people with greater privilege are 
        obligated to continue speaking up on behalf of others with less voice, working for broader 
        inclusion, and insisting on equal justice for all. That ongoing work is perhaps the ultimate 
        expression of VashonBePrepared's motto, 'Neighbors Helping Neighbors'.</p>
