---
title: Latest advice (Mar 9) from King County
description: Latest advice (Mar 9) from King County
date: 2020-03-09T19:04:14Z
PublishDate: 2020-03-09T19:04:14Z
archive: ["2020", "2020-3", "2020-3-9"]
params:
   dnn_blog_ID: 1
   dnn_entry_ID: 425
   meta_title: Latest advice (Mar 9) from King County
   allow_comments: True
   display_copyright: False
   copyright: 
   permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/425/Latest-advice-Mar-9-from-King-County
   image: 425_blog-image.png
   author: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p><b>Recommendations for people at high risk </b>for complications from COVID-19 (i.e. older than 60 years, have chronic medical conditions or weakened immune systems, or who are pregnant) and families who live with them: <ul><li><strong>Make sure you have access to</strong> <strong>several weeks of medications and supplies</strong>. Create a household plan of action (see <a href="https://gcc01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fcoronavirus%2F2019-ncov%2Fcommunity%2Fhome%2Fget-your-household-ready-for-COVID-19.html&amp;data=02%7C01%7CJIC.ECC%40kingcounty.gov%7Cbc698b2a47674a682a5a08d7c45842ad%7Cbae5059a76f049d7999672dfe95d69c7%7C0%7C0%7C637193755676471458&amp;sdata=3BmYNHRWOSxdhaIGcV%2F3IcGv8puoHSStrEp5NuFzpqY%3D&amp;reserved=0">CDC’s home plan checklist</a>)<strong>. </strong><li><strong>Avoid close contact with people who are sick.</strong><li><strong>Avoid crowds and other congregate settings. </strong>Try to avoid being in large groups of people, especially in poorly ventilated spaces.<li><strong>Clean your hands often. </strong>Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing. If soap and water are not readily available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.<li><strong>Clean and disinfect your home to remove germs. </strong>Practice routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces (for example: tables, doorknobs, light switches, handles, desks, toilets, faucets, sinks) with household cleaners and EPA-registered disinfectants that are appropriate for the surface, following label instructions.<li><strong>Pay attention for potential symptoms. </strong>COVID-19 symptoms can include fever, cough, and shortness of breath.</li></ul><p><br></p><h5><strong></strong></h5><h5><strong>If you develop symptoms:</strong></h5><ul><li><b>Call your healthcare provider</b> and inform them about your symptoms. Follow the advice of your healthcare provider about whether to go to your doctor to get tested or to remain at home.<li><b>As much as possible remain separate from other family members</b>, especially those who are older or have underlying health conditions.<li><b>Know when to get emergency help.</b> Get medical attention immediately if you have shortness of breath, chest pain, confusion or dizziness, or persistent vomiting, or if you start to improve but suddenly begin to feel worse.<li><b>If you are in King County</b> <b>and believe you were exposed to a </b><b>confirmed </b><b>case of COVID-19</b>, or <b>if you're a healthcare provider with questions about COVID-19</b>, contact the King County novel coronavirus call center: 206-477-3977. The call center will be open daily from 8 am to 7 pm.</li></ul>
