---
title: Chamber of Commerce offers 15 Re-Opening Workshops
description: Chamber of Commerce offers 15 Re-Opening Workshops
date: 2020-05-26T22:39:24Z
PublishDate: 2020-05-26T22:39:24Z
archive: ["2020", "2020-5", "2020-5-26"]
params:
  dnn_blog_ID: 1
  dnn_entry_ID: 450
  meta_title: Chamber of Commerce offers 15 Re-Opening Workshops
  allow_comments: True
  display_copyright: False
  copyright:
  permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/450/Chamber-of-Commerce-offers-15-Re-Opening-Workshops
  image: 450_blog-image.png
  authors: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p>· <i>Registration has started for <b>reopening workshops</b> being put on by the Chamber of Commerce. Fifteen of the workshops have been scheduled over the next two weeks. They are </i><i>designed to aid local businesses and organizations </i><i>open up under the Phase 2 safety conditions set by the Governor. The planning workshops will help businesses </i><i>reduce risk to staff, ensure customers feel safe and secure, and give </i><i>business operators confidence that they are </i><i>following best practices to protect our community’s health. The free workshops are offered by Vashon Chamber of Commerce and </i><i>are being funded by </i><i>VashonBePrepared.  Each participant will receive a toolkit that will including masks (provided by Masks for Vashon), sanitizer, floor signs for six foot distancing, and signage for the establishment's safety commitments.  One option in the free toolkit will be plexiglass sneeze shields fabricated by volunteers from the Makerspace/Tool Library group.  Visit </i><a href="https://www.vashonchamber.com/re-opening-round-tables/"><i>https://www.vashonchamber.com/re-opening-round-tables/</i></a><i> </i><i>to sign up for one of the workshops:</i><i></i><p>o <i>In-Home Services and Constructions, Thursdays May 28, Jun 4, and Jun 11 at 4pm</i><p>o <i>Body Workers, Hair and Nail Salons, Grooming and Tattoo Artists, Mondays Jun1, Jun 8 and Jun 15 at noon</i><p>o <i>Merchants, Galleries, Artists and Non-Essential Retail, Thursdays May 28, Jun 4, and Jun 11 at 9am</i><p>o <i>Recreation &amp; Fitness, Fridays Jun 5, Jun 12 and Jun 19 at 9am.</i><p><i>Restaurants, Bars and Beverages, Mon Jun 1, Thurs Jun 4 and Wed Jun 8 all at 10am</i></p>
