---
title: What's new - email announcement
description: Best practice-- communicate periodically via social media or whatever medium suits your group.
date: 2014-11-18T04:18:00Z
PublishDate: 2014-11-18T04:18:00Z
archive: ["2014", "2014-11", "2014-11-18"]
params:
   dnn_blog_ID: 5
   dnn_entry_ID: 365
   meta_title: What's new - email announcement
   allow_comments: True
   display_copyright: False
   copyright: 
   permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/365/Whats-new-email-announcement
   image: 365_blog-image.png
   author: Unknown
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p>Check out our <strong>new Facebook page! Vashon Maury NERO&nbsp;</strong>https://www.facebook.com/pages/Vashon-Maury-NERO/1979735268832896</p>
<p>I've just sent out the fall email to NERO organizers. <strong>If your contact information has changed, please let me know</strong>. Please share about your NERO with neighbors and friends, and forward the link to this blog to anyone who's interested in neighborhood emergency preparedness.&nbsp;</p>
<p>Please <strong>bookmark this blo</strong>g and check back when you get a chance, or follow Vashon Maury NERO on Facebook. Ask a question, share an idea, or offer to have your NERO group profiled.&nbsp;</p>
<p>We have a <strong>new email address: NERO@vashonbeprepared.org</strong>. This email address is read by several VashonBePrepared volunteers, so your message will be assured of getting the attention it deserves.</p>
<p>As the holidays approach, I'm grateful for the many opportunities I've enjoyed this year, of meeting with NERO captains and neighbors who are as passionate about emergency preparedness as I am. When you'd like some help with organizing or strengthening your NERO, please call or email me.<strong> I'm happy to meet with you</strong> to share tips on organizing, provide handouts for your meeting, and/or give a brief presentation with visual aids to your group.</p>
<p>The recent electrical outages have given us a handy reminder to freshen up flashlight batteries, revise our family plans, and chat with neighbors about our current resources, skills and vulnerabilities. <strong>Thanks for all you do </strong>to prepare your home and neighborhood for staying safer and more comfortable during a future power outage, snowstorm, or other too-exciting incident!</p>
