---
title: South Seattle Home Fair
description: South Seattle Home Fair
date: 2018-02-03T17:51:40Z
PublishDate: 2018-02-03T17:51:40Z
archive: ["2018", "2018-2", "2018-2-3"]
params:
   dnn_blog_ID: 1
   dnn_entry_ID: 408
   meta_title: South Seattle Home Fair
   allow_comments: True
   display_copyright: False
   copyright: 
   permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/408/South-Seattle-Home-Fair
   image: 408_blog-image.png
   author: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p><a href="http://www.seattle.gov/dpd/aboutus/news/events/">Sign Up Link</a></p>  <p><strong>What:</strong></p>  <p>You’re invited to a South Seattle Home Fair on February 10, 2018, hosted by the Seattle Department of Construction and Inspections. Here’s your chance to ask an expert about your planned remodel and our permitting process and code requirements. You can also get information about rental housing rules, homeowner assistance, landslide awareness, and much, much more.</p>  <p><strong>Who:</strong>    <br />Whether you’re a homeowner, landlord, renter, or potential homeowner, this event has something for you.</p>  <p><strong>When:</strong>    <br />Saturday, February 10, 2018    <br />10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m.</p>  <p><strong>Where:</strong>    <br />Filipino Community Center    <br />5740 Martin Luther King Jr Way S    <br />(The Filipino Community Center is ADA accessible.)</p>  <p><strong>Cost:</strong>    <br />Free</p>  <p><strong>Event Contact:</strong>     <br />Moon Callison, <a>moon.callison@seattle.gov</a>, 206-615-1486</p>  <p><strong>What:</strong>    <br />We will have several staffed information tables and three helpful presentations:</p>  <ul>   <li>10:30 – 11:00 a.m. –Earthquake Retrofit (protect your home in case of an earthquake) </li>    <li>11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. –Landslide Awareness (learn how to prevent landslides on your property) </li>    <li>12:45 – 1:45 p.m.&#160; –Backyard Cottages (learn about building tiny homes and backyard cottages) </li> </ul>  <br />At our information table's you'll be able to ask an expert your questions and get advice about your project or about available services. You’ll have an opportunity to learn about:   <ul>   <li>Affordable housing </li>    <li>Building and residential codes </li>    <li>Building, electrical, boiler, and mechanical inspections </li>    <li>Building permits </li>    <li>Community tool library </li>    <li>Emergency information </li>    <li>Energy rebates </li>    <li>Home ownership assistance </li>    <li>Land use rules </li>    <li>Landslide awareness </li>    <li>Metro transit projects </li>    <li>RainWise information </li>    <li>Rental housing rules </li>    <li>Tree protection rules </li>    <li>Weatherization of homes </li> </ul> Other City departments and local organizations will also be available to answer questions.   <ul>   <li><strong>HomeSight</strong> will provide information about Prepurchase Education classes, Homeownership Counseling, First mortgage lending for refinance, and purchase and down payment assistance. </li>    <li><strong>Homestead Community Land Trust</strong> will provide a program description of their Permanent Affordable Housing model, including eligibility guidelines and resources to get started on the homebuyer process. HCLT staff will be able to answer questions about the Community Land Trust model, ways to get involved in permanent affordable housing advocacy, and much more. </li>    <li><strong>King County Metro Transit</strong> will provide information about their projects and available services. </li>    <li><strong>Office of Housing</strong> will provide information about their Homewise Weatherization and Home Repair Loan programs. The HomeWise Weatherization Program provides FREE energy efficiency improvements to qualified homes, increasing comfort and saving money. The Home Repair Loan Program provides affordable loans to income-qualified homeowners to address critical health, safety, and structural issues. The program is designed for owner-occupied, single family homes with low- to moderate-income households. </li>    <li><strong>RainWise</strong> will help you find out if you are eligible to get a rebate from Seattle Public Utilities and King County for up to 100 percent of the cost of installing a rain garden or cistern on your property. RainWise staff will talk about rain gardens and cisterns, discuss the rebate process, and connect you with trained RainWise contractors. This table will have rain garden planting guides, visual tours of rain garden and cistern installations, maintenance guides, contractor contact lists, and information on low-income grants and funding. </li>    <li><strong>Rebuilding Together Seattle</strong> is a nonprofit that provides free health- and safety-focused home repairs for low income homeowners. They will answer any questions about their program and will have applications and information available at their table. </li>    <li><strong>Seattle City Light</strong> will have information about energy-saving tips, available rebates for your home, and how to buy the right LED bulb and take advantage of in-store instant discounts on LEDs. </li>    <li>The <strong>Seattle Hubs</strong> table will be staffed by Rainer Beach Ready volunteers who will describe how the Emergency Communications Hubs function, where the Rainier Beach Hub is located and have quick tips and multi-language brochures on how to be prepared and communicate during an emergency, as well as information on establishing new hubs in other South Seattle neighborhoods. </li>    <li><strong>Seattle Public Utilities</strong> have information and tools for recycling, composting, and reducing waste. </li>    <li>The<strong> Southeast Seattle Tool Librar</strong>y will present some fascinating facts about the tool collection and the interesting projects the tools have inspired at this community lending library. </li> </ul>
