---
title: Amid high temperatures and dry conditions, King County Fire Marshal issues Stage 2 burn ban prohibiting outdoor recreational fires
description: Amid high temperatures and dry conditions, King County Fire Marshal issues Stage 2 burn ban prohibiting outdoor recreational fires
date: 2021-08-13T21:45:40Z
PublishDate: 2021-08-13T21:45:40Z
archive: ["2021", "2021-8", "2021-8-13"]
params:
   dnn_blog_ID: 1
   dnn_entry_ID: 476
   meta_title: Amid high temperatures and dry conditions, King County Fire Marshal issues Stage 2 burn ban prohibiting outdoor recreational fires
   allow_comments: True
   display_copyright: False
   copyright: 
   permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/News/Blog/EntryId/476/Amid-high-temperatures-and-dry-conditions-King-County-Fire-Marshal-issues-Stage-2-burn-ban-prohibiting-outdoor-recreational-fires
   image: 476_blog-image.png
   author: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<h5>King County Fire Marshal Chris Ricketts has issued a Stage 2 burn ban for unincorporated King County, which prohibits all outdoor recreational fires. Outdoor cooking and heating appliances are restricted to approved manufactured gas and charcoal units only.</h5><p><br><p>The Stage 2 burn ban goes into effect immediately for King County, which was <a href="https://kingcounty.gov/depts/local-services/news/2021/20210623-fire-safety-burn-ban.aspx">already in a Stage 1 burn ban</a>. King County’s ban is in coordination with the King County Fire Chiefs Association and Fire Marshals, which extends the ban into cities.<p>During a Stage 2 burn ban, any outdoor fire such as a backyard fire pit or campfire using chopped firewood or charcoal is prohibited. Under the ban, any person with a recreational fire who fails to take immediate action to extinguish or discontinue when ordered or notified to do so can be charged with, up to and including, a misdemeanor.<p>Manufactured portable outdoor devices are allowed, including barbeques and patio warmers that are used in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. Approved fuel devices - including those that rely on charcoal, natural gas or propane gas – are also allowed. Ricketts asks residents to please use caution when disposing of charcoal remains.<p>Extended periods of abnormally high temperatures have increased the fuel load in the vegetation in our community. The large fire in Oregon and other fires in Washington have stretched wildfire fighting resources throughout the region.<p>Ricketts says if residents must smoke, they should exercise extreme caution with their ashes or when they’re extinguishing cigarettes. The county asks residents to be diligent and respectful of their neighbors, and to remember this is a demanding time for first responders.<p><b>LINKS</b><ul><li><a href="https://kingcounty.gov/depts/local-services/permits/fire-safety/burn-bans-fireworks.aspx">King County Burn Ban &amp; Fireworks</a></li></ul>
