---
title: Heat Wave Tips
description: Heat Wave Tips
date: 2022-07-28T00:50:26Z
PublishDate: 2022-07-28T00:50:26Z
archive: ["2022", "2022-7", "2022-7-28"]
params:
  dnn_blog_ID: 1
  dnn_entry_ID: 490
  meta_title: Heat Wave Tips
  allow_comments: True
  display_copyright: False
  copyright:
  permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/News/Blog/EntryId/490/Heat-Wave-Tips
  image: 490_blog-image.png
  authors: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p>Now that the National Weather Service Excessive Heat Warning has been extended through Saturday, the heat safety tips are even more important. The following tips have been compiled from multiple sources by the Vashon Emergency Operations Center and VashonBePrepared, in collaboration with Vashon Island Fire &amp; Rescue.<ul><li>Stay hydrated. Drink plenty of water before you feel thirsty.</li></ul><ul><li>Ideally, stay indoors and out of the heat of the day, generally from midday to early evening.</li></ul><ul><li>If your job requires you to work outside, do what you can to work in the shade and be especially mindful of getting plenty of water, taking breaks in the shade or in a cool space, and avoiding sunburn. Try to perform critical outdoor tasks in the morning only.</li></ul><ul><li>You can keep your home cooler by shutting blinds, drawing curtains, and keeping windows closed while outdoor temperatures are higher than indoor temperatures. Of course, use fans or air-conditioners, if you have them. Once outdoor temperatures drop below indoor temperatures, open your windows and cross-ventilate to cool down your house.</li></ul><ul><li>Be neighborly. Check on your neighbors, friends, and family in the area – particularly seniors and people with medical conditions – to ensure they are not suffering from heat illness at home.</li></ul><ul><li>Signs of <b>heat exhaustion</b> are heavy sweating; weakness; cold, pale, and clammy skin; weak pulse; fainting; vomiting.</li></ul><ul><li>Signs of <b>heat stroke</b> are high body temperature (103F or higher); hot, dry skin; rapid and strong pulse; possible unconsciousness. Heat stroke is a medical emergency - call 911 and take measures to cool the person down.</li></ul><ul><li>Never leave children or pets in a vehicle. During extreme heat, temperatures inside cars can skyrocket in minutes to deadly levels.</li></ul><ul><li>If you are taking your dog for walks, don't overexert them or yourself. Make sure you and your pet are taking in plenty of water.</li></ul><ul><li>If you are headed to the beach or pool, keep a close eye on kids to prevent drowning. <b>Drowning is fast. Silent. Preventable.</b></li></ul><ul><li>Know how to spot the signs of a person drowning. They:</li><ul><li>Usually cannot call for help<li>Usually cannot wave their arms<li>May be vertical in the water<li>May look like they are climbing a ladder<li>Their mouth may bob above and below the water</li></ul></ul>
