---
title: Vashon Infection Rate Worst Since Pandemic Began
description: Vashon Infection Rate Worst Since Pandemic Began
date: 2022-01-02T23:55:27Z
PublishDate: 2022-01-02T23:55:27Z
archive: ["2022", "2022-1", "2022-1-2"]
params:
   dnn_blog_ID: 1
   dnn_entry_ID: 483
   meta_title: Vashon Infection Rate Worst Since Pandemic Began
   allow_comments: True
   display_copyright: False
   copyright: 
   permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/News/Blog/EntryId/483/Vashon-Infection-Rate-Worst-Since-Pandemic-Began
   image: 483_blog-image.png
   author: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<h5>COVID-19 Update from Vashon Emergency Operations
  Center &amp; VashonBePrepared</h5>

<p><br></p><p>In the past week, Vashon Medical Reserve Corps (MRC) recorded 60 new COVID-19 cases (out of 258 tests
  performed). Five additional positives came from testing Vashon High School (VHS) boys' varsity basketball team
  members. Those results put the count at over 65 cases for this week by the MRC (not including any tests received by
  Vashon residents at other testing facilities).</p>

<p>In a single week:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Vashon logged over 20% of all its cases recorded since the start of the
    pandemic, 94 weeks ago.</li>
  <li>Spiked to a case rate six times the CDC threshold for "high transmission."</li>
  <li>Reached a positive test rate twice that of Vashon's previous high rate in
    November 2020.</li>
  <li>Lost its status as the safest community in Puget Sound, from a spike equal to the
    case rate on the mainland.
  </li>
</ul>

<h4>Testing at Vashon High School</h4>
<p>Vashon Island School District (VISD) has announced a 2.5 hour late start on Monday, January 3, to allow time to
  test students, staff members, and school-age children from 7:30am to 9:30am at the Vashon High School gym. All
  testing is free and funded by the <a href="https://learntoreturn.org/">Learn to Return program</a>. New cases are
  occurring at the same rate in school-age children as in the general population. MRC will help VISD with both rapid
  antigen testing and PCR testing on Monday. The all-out effort is aimed at testing as many students, faculty and
  staff as possible, with the hope of slowing community spread.</p>
<h4>Community Testing</h4>
<p>Testing for Vashon adults unaffiliated with VISD is available from Vashon MRC and Vashon Pharmacy. Anyone who
  has symptoms or was exposed to a positive case should get tested. Call Vashon MRC’s Helpline at (844) 469-4554 for
  advice and to schedule an appointment.</p>

<p>Follow the link below to Vashon Pharmacy’s test appointment form if you need a test for a medical procedure or
  travel. <a href="https://tinyurl.com/vashoncovidtest">https://tinyurl.com/vashoncovidtest</a> </p>

<p>Vashon Pharmacy now has a supervised rapid PCR test available, as well as over-the-counter rapid antigen tests to
  take home. These new services are not covered by insurance as yet, and will require payment of a fee.</p>
<h4>You Can Help Flatten the Spike</h4>
<ul>Vashon Medical Reserve Corps continues to encourage people to take preventative actions:
  <li>GET VACCINATED- it is the best protection against getting severely ill or dying.</li>
  <li>GET TESTED FOR ANY SYMPTOMS- you don't have to be very sick to spread COVID</li>
  <li>QUARANTINE IF EXPOSED- you may get sick up to 10 days after an exposure, and infect others before
    symptoms appear</li>
  <li>AVOID GATHERINGS OUTSIDE OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY- most recent cases can be traced to large family
    gatherings</li>
</ul>
