---
title: Response to the New Terrorist Threat Codes
description: Response to the New Terrorist Threat Codes
date: 2011-03-02T04:54:07Z
PublishDate: 2011-03-02T04:54:07Z
archive: ["2011", "2011-3", "2011-3-2"]
params:
   dnn_blog_ID: 1
   dnn_entry_ID: 53
   meta_title: Response to the New Terrorist Threat Codes
   allow_comments: True
   display_copyright: False
   copyright: 
   permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/53/Response-to-the-New-Terrorist-Threat-Codes
   image: 53_blog-image.png
   authors: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p>The efficacy of the terrorist threat level scheme is dubious: how to convey something so complex simply? John Cleese has a smart interpretation of these:</p>  <p>The English are feeling the pinch in relation to recent terrorist threats and have therefore raised their security level from &quot;Miffed&quot; to &quot;Peeved.&quot; Soon, though, security levels may be raised yet again to &quot;Irritated&quot; or even &quot;A Bit Cross.&quot;</p>  <p>The English have not been &quot;A Bit Cross&quot; since the blitz in 1940 when tea supplies nearly ran out.</p>  <p>Terrorists have been re-categorized from &quot;Tiresome&quot; to &quot;A Bloody Nuisance.&quot; The last time the British issued a &quot;Bloody Nuisance&quot; warning level was in 1588, when threatened by the Spanish Armada.</p>  <p>The Scots have raised their threat level from &quot;Pissed Off&quot; to &quot;Let's get the Bastards.&quot; They don't have any other levels. This is the reason they have been used on the front line of the British army for the last 300 years.</p>  <p>The French government announced yesterday that it has raised its terror alert level from &quot;Run&quot; to &quot;Hide.&quot; The only two higher levels in France are &quot;Collaborate&quot; and &quot;Surrender.&quot; The rise was precipitated by a recent fire that destroyed France's white flag factory, effectively paralyzing the country's military capability.</p>  <p>The Italians have increased the alert level from &quot;Shout Loudly and Excitedly&quot; to &quot;Elaborate Military Posturing.&quot; Two more levels remain: &quot;Ineffective Combat Operations&quot; and &quot;Change Sides.&quot;</p>  <p>The Germans have increased their alert state from &quot;Disdainful Arrogance&quot; to &quot;Dress in Uniform and Sing Marching Songs.&quot; They also have two higher levels: &quot;Invade a Neighbor&quot; and &quot;Lose.&quot;</p>  <p>Belgians, on the other hand, are all on holiday as usual; the only threat they are worried about is NATO pulling out of Brussels.</p>  <p>The Spanish are all excited to see their new submarines ready to deploy. These beautifully designed subs have glass bottoms so the new Spanish navy can get a really good look at the old Spanish navy.</p>  <p>The Australians meanwhile, have raised their security level from &quot;No worries&quot; to &quot;She'll be alright, Mate.&quot; Two more escalation levels remain: &quot;Crikey! I think we'll need to cancel the barbie this weekend!&quot; and &quot;The barbie is canceled.&quot; So far no situation has ever warranted use of the final escalation level.</p>  <p align="right">-- John Cleese - British writer, actor and tall person</p>
