---
title: Chile Recovers From 2010 M8.8 Earthquake
description: Chile Recovers From 2010 M8.8 Earthquake
date: 2011-02-09T03:27:00Z
archive: 2011-02-09T03:27:00Z
params:
   dnn_blog_ID: 1
   dnn_entry_ID: 48
   meta_title: Chile Recovers From 2010 M8.8 Earthquake
   allow_comments: True
   display_copyright: False
   copyright: 
   permalink: https://vashonbeprepared.org/en-us/Home/EntryId/48/Chile-Recovers-From-2010-M8-8-Earthquake
   image: 48_blog-image.png
   author: John Cornelison
categories: []
tags: [Chile, Earthquakes, Study]
keywords: []
topics: []
draft: False
---

<p>Bellevue’s <a target="_blank" href="WWW.MRPENGINEERING.COM">MRP Engineering</a> has a new <a target="_blank" href="http://www.mrpengineering.com/images/MRP%20Engineering%20Chile%20Earthquake%20Info%20Sheet%20v2.pdf">engineering bulletin</a> entitled <em>Chile Recovers From 2010 M8.8 Earthquake</em> that looks at progress made since their M8.8 earthquake February 27th, 2010. It concludes with these implications:</p>
<p><em>Chile is making headway in rebuilding its heartland following a massive subduction zone earthquake that <br />
affected modern structures as far away as Santiago (335 km from the epicenter). However, the recovery from <br />
a major earthquake need not be a lengthy process. Organizations with earthquake exposures can learn from <br />
this event and should consider proactive steps to enhance safety, reduce damage, and minimize downtime. <br />
• Review business recovery plans to include dedicated resources (contactors, suppliers, and engineers). <br />
• For existing operations, assess earthquake risks (buildings, contents, and critical lifelines) and identify <br />
specific areas of improvement relative to safety and business risks. <br />
• For proposed construction, perform independent design reviews to verify the desired seismic <br />
performance. Building codes tend to focus on occupant safety rather than limiting damage in a major <br />
earthquake. <br />
• Verify seismic restraint of equipment and contents. This is a cost-effective method of loss control.</em></p>
